---
date: 2025-03-26
title: All-New Updates to Ouras Activity Features
url: https://ouraring.wpengine.com/activity-improvements/
canonical: https://ouraring.wpengine.com/activity-improvements/
category: bookmark
tags:
  - Reeder
---

Oura Ring originated with a focus on three pillars of health: Sleep, Readiness, and Activity. Now, it has evolved into a personal health companion, allowing members to connect the dots between their sleep, movement, heart health, fertility, menstrual cycle, stress and resilience, and more.⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Over the years, we have continually improved our sensing technology and machine-learning algorithms to ensure we deliver the most accurate sleep tracking, heart rate and HRV, and temperature trends data to members.⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ As we evolve, we want to make sure that our members are getting the most accurate information regarding their daily movement. We’re excited to announce several new updates, including more accurate calculation of steps and calorie burn, all-day (and all-night!) activity tracking, and the ability to edit previous days’ activity.⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ What’s New?⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ All-Day Activity Tracking⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Automatic Activity Detection now works all hours of the day and night—including between 12am and 4am—so all of your movement counts, no matter when you move. Whether you’re working a night shift or dancing into the early-morning hours, your Oura Ring is still tracking.⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Note: Activities added between midnight and 4am may appear in the Oura App as a previous day’s activity.⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ LEARN MORE: How to Use AAD⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Edit Previous Days’ Activity⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ If you missed adding a workout (or two), no sweat. Now, you can go back to add or edit activities from the past seven days. Oura will automatically adjust your past Readiness and Activity Scores accordingly. Find more details in the Support Center here.⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Real Steps⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Real Steps is the next iteration in Oura’s step counting algorithm. Rather than estimating step count using generic movement, Real Steps enables Oura to act more like a pedometer, using a more advanced machine-learning model to more accurately determine when ring movement is a step. This means you will likely see a change in your step count than you may be used to, with members seeing an average decrease in step count of 20%.⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ More Accurate Active Calories⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Oura’s Active Calorie burn now takes your intensity of movement into account, meaning your heart rate during exercise. In November 2024, updates to Automatic Activity Tracking unlocked the ability to measure heart rate and heart rate zones after an activity was added. Now, your activity data, including active calories, will reflect that measurement.⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ For active calories, the change in reaching your Activity Goal depends on what type of exercise you’re doing. If you’re doing a more intense workout like a HIIT class, you may see you’ve burned more calories than previously shown, making it easier to reach your goal. In lower-intensity exercises like yoga or casual walking, it may lower the active calorie burn amount shown.⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Activity at Oura⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Oura provides members with a variety of tools and methods to track their activity and movement patterns. By delivering in-depth data and analysis on daily exercise and movement patterns, Oura empowers members to make informed decisions about their lifestyle and routines, promoting a more active and balanced approach to wellbeing.⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Activity Score⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Oura’s Activity Score takes into consideration a number of contributing factors—including step count, training frequency, training volume, and inactive time—to help you understand how you’re balancing activity and rest.⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Automatic Activity Detection⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Automatic Activity Detection identifies up to 40 different activities, including walking, strength training, skiing, or housework, and provides average heart rate and heart rate zone information after an activity has been automatically detected.⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Personalized Activity Goals⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ Taking into consideration a member’s daily Readiness Score as well as their baseline goals, personalized Activity Goals can also be adjusted manually. Members also have the choice to use a calorie burn goal or step goal depending on what’s most important to them, supporting all types of movement and goals.⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ READ MORE: All Movement Counts: Using Oura to Track Low, Medium, and High-Intensity Activities⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠⁠ The post All-New Updates to Oura’s Activity Features appeared first on The Pulse Blog.
